new-feat.md, before:

# New fetures

## Aplication of [pykg2tbl](https://github.com/vliz-be-opsci/pykg2tbl)

Using pykg2tbl we outsource two points:
    1. Queries
    2. Endpoint

### Queries

The queries instead of being hardcoded are now built from a template using [DefaultSparqlBuilder](src/marine_eov_broker/NVSQueries.py#5).
This will remove the need to have every query hardcoded and copied, changing only the specific variables, since the templating also allows for variable input.
Also this method allow for easier implementation of new query formats.

### Endpoint

Aplying the [KGSource](src/marine_eov_broker/MarineRiBroker.py#14) allows for a dynamic endpoint source to be queried.
The KGSource will construct an object that will accept several sources (Graphs, ttl files, endpoints) and manage to do queries with the same simple sintax. See [implementation](src/marine_eov_broker/MarineRiBroker.py#457).

The KGSource ABS also allows for more impletations to be created if the need for more sources surfaces.

This implementation removed all the code connecting to the endpoints and making the queries, outsourcing it all to the object.

## I-Adopt

Added a new query [template](src/marine_eov_broker/j2_templates/nsv-eov-to-usage_via-iop.sparql) that follows the I-Adopt concept.

Commit message:

docs: add the eurobis endpoint to the references

new-feat.md, after:

# New fetures

## Aplication of [pykg2tbl](https://github.com/vliz-be-opsci/pykg2tbl)

Using pykg2tbl we outsource two points:
    1. Queries
    2. Endpoint

### Queries

Instead of hardcoding queries, we now build them from a template using [DefaultSparqlBuilder](src/marine_eov_broker/NVSQueries.py#5).
This eliminates the need to have every query hardcoded and copied, allowing for easier modification of specific variables. The templating also enables variable input and facilitates the implementation of new query formats.

### Endpoint

By applying the [KGSource](src/marine_eov_broker/MarineRiBroker.py#14) we have introduced a dynamic endpoint source for querying. The KGSource constructs an object that accepts various sources such as graphs, TTL files, and endpoints. It simplifies the querying process with a consistent and straightforward syntax. For more details, refer to the [implementation](src/marine_eov_broker/MarineRiBroker.py#457).

The KGSource ABS also allows for the creation of additional implementations if the need for more sources arises. 
This implementation has removed all the code connecting to the endpoints and making the queries, outsourcing it all to the object.

#### Eurobis ERDDAP

Added the [eurobis ERDDAP](https://erddap.eurobis.org/erddap), maintained by [VLIZ](https://www.vliz.be/en), as a default endpoint for the broker. 

## I-Adopt

Added a new query [template](src/marine_eov_broker/j2_templates/nsv-eov-to-usage_via-iop.sparql) that follows the I-Adopt concept.
